Page 1 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.
COMPANY DEEP-DIVE
Former Executive Says That Uber’s International Business Should
Continue To Grow Double-Digits With Increased Operating Leverage
DATE PUBLISHED
17 Apr 2025INTERVIEW DATE
15 Apr 2025EXPERT PERSPECTIVE
FormerANALYST PERSPECTIVE
Investor-Led (Buy-Side)PRIMARY COMPANIES
UBER
SMART SUMMARY
Transcript Highlights
In the expert's opinion, Uber can sustain double-digit growth in EMEA by leveraging operating eﬃciencies as the business scales
and increasing the mix of high-margin advertising revenue. This positions the company well to gain share in emerging markets like
Africa that have greater room for growth versus more mature regions.
The expert believes ridesharing still presents the bigger long-term opportunity over food delivery, given the larger market size and
revenue per trip. However, growth prospects remain strong for delivery by expanding into grocery and convenience delivery.
Compared to competitors, Uber is poised for above-market growth in emerging EMEA countries while matching mature market
growth rates. Progressing autonomous vehicles could boost margins, but are unlikely to displace Uber's platform reach and scale.
AlphaSense Assistant is AI Generated
Table of Contents
Evolution of food delivery business models.
Rideshare versus delivery revenue in EMEA.
Scaling delivery margins through ads and volume.
Mobility versus delivery market size comparison.
Autonomous vehicles impact on rideshare platforms.
Uber's regional strategy across EMEA markets.
Summary of Uber’s growth outlook and strategy.
Expert Bio
Expert was an Executive at Uber, responsible for developing and setting strategy with the Regional Managers. Expert reported to a
General Manager, ~2 levels from the C-suite.
Employment History
Self-Employed (Private)
Self-Employed • December 2024 - Present • 4 mos
The South African LGBT+ Management Forum (Private)
Director • February 2018 - February 2025 • 7 yrs
Amazon (Public)
Head of Seller Success • September 2023 - December 2024 • 1 yr, 3 mos
Uber (Public)
Strategy & Planning Lead, EMEA Customer Experience - New Verticals (short-term assignment) • May 2023 - August 2023 • 3 mosRelevant Role
Uber (Public)
Head of Strategy & Planning, Sub-Saharan Africa • September 2020 - August 2023 • 2 yrs, 11 mos
Uber (Public)
Eater Operations Lead, Uber Eats South Africa • April 2020 - August 2020 • 4 mos
Page 2 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.
Uber (Public)
Restaurant Operations Lead, Uber Eats South Africa • October 2018 - March 2020 • 1 yr, 5 mos
Monitor Deloitte (ex Monitor Group) (Private)
Consultant • June 2017 - October 2018 • 1 yr, 4 mos
Interview Transcript
Analyst 00:00:00
The call will be recorded so it can be transcribed. Second, you understand the deﬁnition of material non-public information and
agree not to disclose such information during the interview. You conﬁrm you don't have a non-disclosure agreement or anything
preventing you from speaking at the companies discussed during the call. If there's something I ask you and you can't answer it,
just let me know, and we can move on. Finally, you agree not to discuss details of your current employer. Do agree?
Expert 00:00:19
I agree.
Analyst 00:00:23
Great. The focus of the call today is on food delivery and your former employer, Uber. Wanted to focus on two topics. One is on
the evolution of food delivery and the outlook going forward. I know your expertise but to the extent that you have more
perspective, either globally or on the overall strategy and outlook as it relates to the whole company would be helpful, or the
whole industry as it relates to Uber in particular.
Analyst 00:00:52
Similar question on the evolution of Uber and the outlook going forward, obviously, with the emphasis given your expertise on
food delivery inside of the outlook. Would be curious to get your perspective of how big Africa is. It sits inside of EMEA as they
disclose it, and get a sense of the proﬁtability and what you think quantitatively, how much of an impact do you think that Africa
can be relative to the overall company. Before we jump into that, can you walk through your career background experience,
please, and then we can get into those topics?
Expert 00:01:32
Sure. I'd say I started my career out in management consulting for almost ﬁve years and then moved across to Uber Eats, leading
two teams and operations, and then moving to head of strategy and planning for sub-Saharan Africa, speciﬁcally in Uber Eats. I
spent almost ﬁve years there as well and then moved on to Amazon to launch the South African marketplace in 2023 onwards, up
until end of last year.
Analyst 00:02:13
Great. How has the industry changed, I think, from 2018 through either 2023 when you left or to today? What were some big
changes that you observed in the industry?
Expert 00:02:28
Sure. From a food delivery perspective, I think 2018, the food delivery industry was still pretty nascent. The large focus was getting
all the restaurants that you can. The primary focus was selection. First, getting all the restaurants that you need on the app at quite
a high, it's called marketplace fee, to inﬂuence your proﬁtability, ﬁrst focusing on the large enterprises, your KFCs, McDonald's, etc.,
because those give you the share, and are most popular obviously because of the volume of stores that they have. They give you
more coverage, etc., and then moving on to more longer-tail selection.
Expert 00:03:18
I'd say the ﬁrst two or three years of Uber Eats, obviously, it launched earlier in U.S., Europe, etc., but it followed a similar playbook.
You ﬁrst start with your bigger-scaled restaurants or food merchant, and then you move across to your long-tail selection, which is
"your local favorites" that your customers are looking for.
Expert 00:03:43
If customers can ﬁnd KFC, McDonald's, etc., in every other app, including their own apps, how do you diﬀerentiate? You do that by
going oﬀ the smaller guys, the more local, unique selection. That was the big play, I would say. Lots of focus on selection, lots of
focus on speed as a diﬀerentiator and also on experience, I would say. Do customers get their orders when they order them? Big
focus on operations in terms of eﬃciencies and cancellation rates, etc.
Expert 00:04:17
I would say that that's the marker, and even as they launch into diﬀerent countries, that's the strategy that you'll ﬁnd plays out. I
would say from around COVID time, about 2020, big shift into more, let's call it, everyday, it started as essentials, meaning your
convenience items, etc., like pharma health, all of those. That was mainly impacted by the shift.
Page 3 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.Expert 00:04:52
As diﬀerent countries had diﬀerent protocols of lockdown, some locking down, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, you found that
restaurants were not considered essentials and therefore could not operate on online delivery platforms. There was a big shift
towards pivoting towards your convenience, groceries, etc., as people stayed put at home.
Expert 00:05:18
That was, I would say, the biggest shift that impacted your food delivery businesses to pivot into more convenience and groceries.
Actually, even if they had spotted that play before, I'd say that's what made it double down. That's what made these businesses
double down on that particular line of business from around 2019, 2020 onwards.
Expert 00:05:43
This became a big diﬀerentiator, I think. What you'll ﬁnd is all of the food delivery platforms tend to oﬀer the same value
proposition over time. You ﬁrst compete on the selection, then you compete on your speed, and you compete on your reliability.
The diﬀerentiator becomes competing on, I suppose, other lines of business like grocery, convenience, etc., big focus from that
perspective that started to come into play.
Expert 00:06:21
Now, you also ﬁnd that these grocery convenience stores also started to have their own online delivery presence serving the same
purpose as Uber Eats was trying to serve at that point in time. You start to experience a diﬀerent shift, one with the quick
convenience players coming in and competing primarily on speed, getting it to you as quickly as possible.
Expert 00:06:49
That's really forced also the evolution of Uber Eats from just signing up your big convenience players to going into dark stores
because if you can prop up more dark stores everywhere, you can reduce the speed of delivering to customers and enter the quick
commerce players as well that were doing the same thing, oﬀering a relatively similar value proposition. Everyone started
competing on that dark-store model, making sure that you have as much selection as close as possible to the customer to be able
to deliver to that customer as quickly as possible.
Expert 00:07:29
I would say the third big shift that really happened was probably, as I mentioned, as these grocery and convenience players start to
have their own online presence and becoming more and more reluctant to sign up to your marketplaces just because they have
thinner margins than restaurants, if you're charging a marketplace fee in the high teens, etc., it becomes prohibitive to them to list
their selection at the right price point.
Expert 00:08:09
Uber Eats started to pivot towards Uber Direct, which is more around the last mile fulﬁllment piece. If you can't get these stores to
sign up into your marketplace, can you still make income from the last mile fulﬁllment using your vast network of couriers, etc.? I
think that was probably the third big shift that happened.
Expert 00:08:33
This was closer to, I would say, 2021 into 2022, where this last mile fulﬁllment became a really big discussion. It was born out of a
little bit of friction of getting the really big retail players to sign up to a marketplace for a variety of reasons, but still trying to make
some earnings using the large supply network of couriers. I'll say those are the three big shifts.
Expert 00:09:04
I think given those shifts, obviously, there's been a shift to proﬁtability with a lot more pressure to become proﬁtable to prove the
use case for delivery, because as you know, it's a very low-margin business. There was a really big shift to advertising as a big push
to get Uber Eats on because that would deﬁnitely help margins.
Expert 00:09:29
Obviously, the ads business in general is a really big business, but speciﬁcally to improve net revenue margins from an Uber Eats
perspective, this was a real big game-changer. I think it's one that came in, I would say, 2021, so to speak, as there was a big drive
overall from a company perspective to get the delivery business to proﬁtability. In summary, I would say those are the four pushes.
Analyst 00:10:02
Basically, it was a nascent market selection, speed, experience. You had COVID rates were big shift to more everyday essentials,
driven in part by the lockdowns. You had online focused on more on last mile fulﬁllment, and then lastly, focus on proﬁtability
and shifting more to advertising to augment or help support the low-margin business there.
Analyst 00:10:28
If we look at Uber's ﬁnancials here and we see the way they have North America, United States, and Canada, but if you look, this
extends maybe one year beyond when you were there. U.S. and Canada grew at, I'm just doing the math here, 22%, 23% CAGR
from 2019-2024. This includes both rideshare and Eats, so it's a lumped-in number.
Page 4 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.Analyst 00:11:02
If we look at some of their other regions like for example, if we look at APAC 44%, double the growth rate, but on a much lower
base than when we look at EMEA, for example, which included Africa in there and sub-Saharan Africa, would you say that Africa,
for example, inside of EMEA had then grew by 2024? Do you have a sense of how much was the mix between, let's say, rideshare
versus Eats within those numbers?
Expert 00:11:45
From the broader EMEA or sub-Saharan Africa?
Analyst 00:11:52
EMEA and Africa as well.
Expert 00:11:55
I would say it was closer to an equal mix of rights to food delivery. Food delivery EMEA and contribution of Africa to EMEA is
deﬁnitely on the lower end. I think Africa's not, from a ridesharing perspective, higher mix, but from a food delivery perspective, a
much lower mix. It just depends.
Expert 00:12:34
If you aggregate it, for example, I don't know the aggregated number of Africa into EMEA if you consider both rideshare and
delivery, however, looking at it by separating the lines of business, for example, the contribution of Africa in EMEA from a rideshare
perspective is a lot higher than the contribution of food delivery into EMEA. Does that make sense?
Analyst 00:13:02
You're saying Africa rideshare was more meaningful than Africa food delivery.
Expert 00:13:08
Yes. 100%.
Analyst 00:13:18
In EMEA, I'm just using some round numbers here, if it's a $12.5 billion of revenue, let's say last year in calendar 2024, just rough
split.
Expert 00:13:30
About.
Analyst 00:13:42
If you look at mobility, which is rideshare, and you look at delivery, on an aggregate basis, what the company discloses, delivery
has grown faster than mobility. Is that fair to say that delivery also, overall, maybe EMEA has grown faster than rideshare just
goes oﬀ of a lower base?
Expert 00:14:08
Yes, 100%.
Analyst 00:14:11
Similar there. These tend to be scale businesses. If we were to look at mobility margins for the company overall or the way that
they disclose it as a percentage of revenue, they also do gross bookings, but in the percentage of revenue, have gotten into the
mid-20s and delivery and these had been unproﬁtable business became proﬁtable, but if you look at delivery, those margins have
marked higher.
Analyst 00:14:50
They have the negative. They cross positive in 2022 and then 2023 and 2024 and are narrowing the gap. Delivery at 18% margin
last year and 29% on mobility, is mobility over-earning and that number goes down, or is delivery under-earning and can reach
mobility, or how do you think about that?
Expert 00:15:22
You mean from a net revenue percentage perspective?
Analyst 00:15:29
I was talking more proﬁtability from a margin perspective. Can delivery eventually get to mobility margins, and can those
margins go even higher?
Expert 00:15:45
That's a really diﬃcult one. I would say it all depends on how much more they can scale the ads business because I think that's the
key proﬁt driver. Actually, for example, on all other cost bases, the biggest one being, let's say, earnings to drivers, if you move the
Page 5 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.earnings or rather to couriers, if you can reduce something like earnings to courier, that probably has a higher impact on your
proﬁtability, but all other cost lines, they quite ﬁxed in that way.
Expert 00:16:36
The way that I would think about their potential to outrun mobility proﬁt margins would be the ability to scale the ads business and
the ability to reduce courier costs. That one is a diﬃcult one because in each region, you get a lot of regions, let's say, government
agencies putting regulations around minimum earnings, etc. That makes it very diﬃcult to play around with earnings, reduce
earnings, let's say, how much you pay per trip to a courier. You rely on eﬃciencies of volume, but there's only so many trips a
courier can do per hour, for example.
Expert 00:17:26
That one is dependent on major transformations like autonomous deliveries, for example. Even then, there's also some hardware
cost implications, etc., but only if the investment in autonomous delivery can drive down the cost below courier earnings. Would it
actually improve the proﬁt margins?
Expert 00:17:54
The other piece that I think is a really big driver is ads. The more they invest in ads and the more the ads business contributes, the
higher that proﬁt margin will be. It's diﬃcult to say. Will it outstrip because I think that's the biggest lever from a proﬁtability
perspective.
Analyst 00:18:16
Let me ask you another way, taking a step back, which is, can delivery continue to grow at such a rapid rate? I'm using the overall
numbers, but can it continue to grow at a 40% CAGR or 30% CAGR, or 20% CAGR for several years?
Expert 00:18:42
I think it's possible. I think it all comes down to the mix of products that delivery can oﬀer and how much more eﬃcient those
products can become over time, which is what would grow. For example, the higher the penetration of grocery and retail, which is
probably the key driver of the growth that you're seeing in delivery, the more there's higher penetration of that, the faster it will
grow.
Expert 00:19:17
For example, I would say food delivery in the traditional sense, restaurant, that doesn't have a lot more room to deliver double-digit
growth because within the delivery space, they consider both restaurants, they also consider your grocery retail, and they consider
Uber Direct. That's all lumped into the delivery business.
Expert 00:19:42
I think the one that has probably reached, let's call it, an area where there's unlikely to be more double-digit growth is food delivery
in the traditional sense, like restaurants, but there's still a lot to play for from a grocery retail, and there's a big opportunity still in
the Uber Direct space, both from a growth in terms of top line and also eﬃciency from a cost perspective. Does that make sense?
Analyst 00:20:11
Sure. In a vacuum, if we were to isolate though, if this business, let's say continue to grow at a double-digit rate, where the mix of
business, let's say similar in terms of how much is advertising and how much is core food delivery, though, would just that
growth alone meaning, if you grew a 10% or 20% CAGR, will that growth alone result in higher margins because of the operating
leverage in the scale, or would margins stay the same or would they go down because the incremental cost is of that trip is, let's
say, less eﬃcient, that marginal trip is less eﬃcient? What happens to margin just in a vacuum based on as revenue grows?
Expert 00:21:04
It grows. You get higher leverage, I think, the ﬁxed cost base. The ads business is almost a zero-cost business. The more it grows,
the more it trickles down to the bottom line. Do you know what I mean? It barely has any costs basically, from an ad perspective,
which is why I said that that is the big, I think, driver that would create that.
Expert 00:21:33
From a product mix perspective, if we take away ads and we look at the mix of grocery retail to traditional restaurants to Uber
Direct, I would say the more there is scale, the more that will translate to better margins because there's still a lot to play for from a
ﬁxed-cost versus trip volume perspective. Does that make sense?
Analyst 00:22:00
Sure. The point though is that for Uber, you think that they can continue to grow at a double-digit rate, and given the market and
given what they're doing, supported by higher proﬁtability, given the operating leverage as they continue to grow, and then as
more of the business, let's say, becomes advertising, given that improvement. Is that fair to say?
Expert 00:22:29
Yeah.
Page 6 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.Analyst 00:22:36
If we were to look at the business today, right now, mobility is roughly twice as big relative to delivery, $25 billion of revenue last
year versus under $14 billion for delivery. It's largely concentrated in U.S. and Canada. Which do you think is the bigger market?
Do you think it's mobility or do you think it's delivery?
Expert 00:23:10
That's a trick question. It's a big debate. I still think it's mobility actually. I think there's a bigger business in mobility than there is in
food delivery. Mainly, if you look at it from a revenue perspective per trip, mobility will always have the higher per trip revenue.
Expert 00:23:40
I suppose because mobility is also diversifying into other product lines, it's giving them the trip volume as well, introducing high-
capacity vehicles, introducing your, let's call it, Uber career model etc., from that perspective, I think mobility is still the bigger
business, or the bigger opportunity, bigger market than delivery.
Analyst 00:24:20
Maybe reiterate that point again, though, why rideshare is just because more people need to get around than necessarily to get
something delivered to them.
Expert 00:24:30
Yes.
Analyst 00:24:39
There's a debate, let's say, in the U.S. or in North America. It's perhaps more mature on the rideshare side, but I wonder if it's
maybe the same for food delivery. Do you get the sense that at some point, does autonomy take over, whether it be rideshare
and/or food delivery, and then does that disintermediate something like an Uber where there's another platform that can deliver
it and there's no need, let's say, for drivers, whether it be on either side? Is that something you see happening internationally, or
that's a long way away you're not even ever going to happen in your mind?
Expert 00:25:20
Can you rephrase that question just so I make sure I understand it correctly?
Analyst 00:25:26
In the U.S., there's a perceived risk that autonomous vehicles, let's say, in rideshare will disintermediate, will eﬀectively render
some of these rideshare platforms less important or unimportant because someone will hail a car, for example, just by using the
autonomous vehicle that will show up. You don't need a driver for it. Why do you need a Uber, for example?
Analyst 00:25:59
I think that in some of these international markets, Africa, they're behind relative to the United States. You'd also imagine that for
food delivery as well, that the driver, you have to share in the revenue that this would be there. Is that something that's
discussed? Is this a risk internationally, or it's just still so nascent here and there's so much growth that's not even a factor at this
point?
Expert 00:26:29
I think it's still nascent, but it is discussed. The conversations on autonomous vehicles started, I would say, probably around 2022.
Uber's investment into Waymo, etc., and autonomous vehicles, this has been a discussion point for a while in terms of how does
Uber get ahead of or participate in the autonomous transportation space?
Expert 00:27:00
I think from that perspective, the bet is if they invest in it and integrate into the ridesharing app as you know it, by oﬀering some, I
suppose, incentives to customers to use it. It also makes sense to Uber to invest in autonomous vehicles because it drives down the
price from a driver-earnings perspective to a certain degree. All to say that it's nascent. It is discussed, however, it's positioned as an
investment opportunity for Uber to get in early and integrated into the current ridesharing model versus seeing it necessarily as a
threat. Does that make sense?
Analyst 00:27:47
Sure. From a competitive perspective, though, whether it be Africa or for EMEA in general, how do you think Uber's set up
competitively? Can they outgrow the market? They grow in line with the market. Do they grow slower than the market? In other
words, do you think they'll gain share, they'll lose share? What do you think happens?
Expert 00:28:16
This is part of the autonomous vehicle discussion, just general outlook?
Page 7 of 7
©2025, AlphaSense, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AlphaSense is a service mark of AlphaSense, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.Analyst 00:28:20
Yeah. I was curious that that came up in conversation, moving on from that.
Expert 00:28:28
Okay. The trouble with EMEA is it's an aggregate of a lot of diﬀerent markets. There is a point of view of sub-regionally, i.e., Europe
versus Middle East versus Africa, what that outlook looks like. Obviously, with Europe having almost a higher share of relative
importance to the other countries that make up EMEA.
Expert 00:28:59
From that perspective, I think the general outlook is Uber is either in more mature or established markets growing at about the
same rate as competitors, whereas in the more emerging EMEA markets, which are more your Africa, Middle East, it's more of
outgrowing the competitor.
Analyst 00:29:28
It varies by market and varies by product or service line.
Expert 00:29:39
Yeah. Usually. There's no presence of, for example, food delivery in Middle East for Uber Eats.
Analyst 00:29:55
Sure. Do you get a sense that Uber is emphasizing, or the strategy internationally is more on rideshare or on delivery, or is it very
speciﬁc to the individual markets?
Expert 00:30:11
It's very speciﬁc. The thinking is to prioritize one business line over the other. It's very speciﬁc to the speciﬁc market conditions of
that country. For example, as you might have seen in some of these statements, Germany launched food delivery quite "late" in
terms of the other food delivery players quite late in Germany, about two or three years ago. The rideshare business has been there
for a while. There's no prioritization of one business line over the other as a general global strategy. It's more market by market
depending on the diﬀerent regulations and conditions to operate, overindexing on one versus the other.
Analyst 00:31:12
Just tying everything together, to go back, you talked about the evolution of food delivery, the four key changes 2018 when you
joined the nascency, but came then selection, speed, experience. We had COVID where it was a big shift to everyday essentials
and convenience items due to the lockdowns and expanding beyond that. It came down to diﬀerentiation and then speed.
Analyst 00:31:42
You talked about the shift then to online and last-mile fulﬁllment, and then overall, it came down to proﬁtability. That was done
through a combination of operating leverage and eﬃciency and then a shift to more advertising to augment margins as it
became a bigger mix of business. Within EMEA itself, it's a mix of rideshare and food delivery. Split in terms of rideshare versus
delivery. Probably sounds like it will outgrow other areas of the world just oﬀ of a lower base.
Analyst 00:32:17
I think that Africa is a smaller mix, particularly in food delivery, more nascent. Just me reading between the lines that maybe,
perhaps can outgrow some of those growth rates, but sounds like in EMEA, I think they could continue to sustain a double-digit
growth rate, get some operating leverage, particularly as the mix of business shifts to advertising, they grow with it.
Analyst 00:32:42
You think that the opportunity here, it's still somewhat earlier stages, particularly relative to U.S. or some of these other markets
so they can continue to grow there, but it will come down to how much they can grow the mix of business, these eﬃciencies we
talked about before.
Analyst 00:33:07
Autonomy is certainly a topic of discussion that's come up. The playbook going forward, it varies by region or subregion. It's
harder to piece it together, but you think that depending upon the market, there's some opportunities for Uber to grow in those
markets. That's just meant to be a quick summary. Is that fair?
Expert 00:33:35
Yeah. That's it.